(intro music)
Into the serverless function again
and write the code that will validate the data
as well as send it off to the email.
So we're going to open up our placeOrder.js.
And we'll go down to our handler here.
And above that, let's write some stuff that needs to happen.
We need to validate
the data coming in is correct.
We also need to send the email
and then we need to
send the success or error message
depending on what happened.
Okay. So first let's validate the data.
So, we'll make an array here of required fields.
So, const required,
fields is equal to,
we want to make sure that they send us an email,
and we want to make sure that there is a name
and that they gave us an order.
So what we'll do is we'll loop over each of these
and if we're missing any of them,
we'll send an error back for that.
Now, normally for arrays, I like to use a .for-each,
but because we need to return from this function,
using a for-each would create another function scope,
and you can't return from a inner scope of an outer scope.
So what we'll use here is a for-of loop.
So say for
const field of
required
fields.
And then let's just console log, checking.
Maybe I'll do back ticks to checking. That
field
is good.
Okay. Now we'll go to our terminal here.
Clear it out, submit this.
That's fine that it broke.
Just cause we haven't sent a reply back
But we should at least see,
the fact that this function is running
in our console.
So maybe we have to kill it
and run NPM run nullify once more.
Let's try it again.
Refresh, add some things to your order.
Make sure you don't fill out email or name.
Click it.
Boom. Okay, there we go.
So we did need to restart it.
Sometimes it seems like a lot in this course.
You just need to restart the thing.
So what happened here is
you check that email is good,
name and order. Okay. Cool.
All right. So next I want to check
that the data is actually being sent
from our used pizza hook right here,
and then we can accept it on this end.
So the way that you get the body of the request
is you just console.log event.body,
and that should give us what's being sent over.
So I believe, now I just add something.
Go ahead and order ahead.
We get object object.
That, whenever you see that,
that means that your object was turned to a string
without properly being stringified.
So I,
what I'll do here is I'll go into our network tab,
refresh the page, go to your network tab,
clear it all out,
try to run it
and see what happens here. Options?
Oh, here we go.
Cores is missing. Oh, you know what?
I'm on localhost:8000. That should be 8888
in order for it to work properly.
Okay. Clear it out again.
Add something
and go ahead and order.
Actually I'm going to clear out my console.
So I can see just this request.
There we go.
Look at this.
The event
.body,
is this,
is coming in.
It's actually a string, not
an actual object.
So if we want to turn it into an object, we can do this.
Const body is equal to
JSON
dot
parse
event.body
Again, remember we, we stringified-ed it,
stringefied-ed it here.
And then we turn it back into an object
by parsing it into a variable called body.
And that will allow us. Here watch.
Now, if we console.log, the body
variable,
we should see it nicely formatted.
Similar to this.
I had a zero on there. Take the zero off,
add this, go ahead and let's clear it out.
Boom, order ahead.
And there is our entire order.
You also see that name and email are there.
So what we want to do is loop through these order,
name, and email
and make sure that those fields are being sent.
So it can say here, if
there is no
body, square bracket field,
then
we will return
status code
400, something went wrong.
And the body will say,
JSON
.stringify,
we'll give it a message that says
oops,
you are
missing
the
field,
field.
And I know that we can put required on the client,
but it's always good to validate.
Triple check your data on the server as well.
So now I believe
we go here
and try to submit it without having a name or email
clear out this, go ahead and run it.
(laughs)
It says, go eat.
That's cause we haven't...
I don't think we've handled it properly.
But we should see the response. There we go.
The response from this is, oops,
you are missing the email field. Okay, good.
So our validation of our data is working properly.
Next up, all we need to do is to send the email.
And before we do that, we need an entire function
that will generate the order email.
So let's just go up here
and we'll say function generate order email
that will take in an object with two properties,
the order and the total.
And then from that, we'll just return back ticks.
So we're not in React anymore.
So we can't use React on this.
There are whole frameworks, you can use React for email.
But just regular HTML templating is great.
So we'll return a div.
And then inside there, h2.
Your recent
order for
I'll put the total in there,
paragraph, it'll say, please start walking over.
We'll have your order ready in the next 20 minutes.
Then here we'll list out what they got for their order.
So unordered list, then we'll take
the, we'll do dollar sign, curly bracket,
we'll take the order and we'll map over each of those items.
And for each item, we want to return a list item. Oh.
This is not React any longer. So we need back ticks.
So list item,
then inside each li, we will
give ourselves an image tag
where the source is equal to
the item.thumbnail. Again, this is not React.
So the syntax is a little bit different.
The alt will be the item.name,
and then below that
we'll template out the item.size
item.name
and dash
item.price.
And then under that.
Paragraph, your total is,
Oh yeah. Dollar sign for the actual dollar sign
and then dollar sign for templating, total
due at pickup.
Okay. So it's just the regular old function
that takes in data and interpolates it for us.
Then we can go
down here
where we have the send email.
We can comment this back again.
And it will say from, to.
So to, we can cc the actual person who ordered it
or just put them in the to field.
So let's say
take the person's name.
There also needs to be back ticks
in order for this to work. There we go.
And then the person's email,
This is just the syntax that is needed
if you want to do a name and a email.
Oh you know what? It's not name and email it's
body.name and body.email.
Okay.
And then the HTML will now be generated.
Generate order email, and then you pass it
the
order, which is
body dot
order.
And the total, which is body.total.
I'm getting some red.
You know what?
This happened to me before.
I think this is red,
I think it's,
there's something in one of these
syntax things that's making it
think that it's incorrectly highlighted.
But I believe this is right. We'll see.
So now what we can do
is we have this info
and here we will return,
instead of that, we'll return a status was a success
or actually we are gonna say message.
'Cause that's what we're using.
Okay.
So let's try it.
Let's go to our order page,
Wes. Wes Bos at Gmail.
Order a couple of different pizzas.
And go ahead and order ahead.
Now, we can check our email inbox here.
This was our order, just happened right now. Open it up.
Your recent order for $146 worth of pizza.
And it looks like a medium parent is...
It looks like everything is working.
We can make this look a little bit nicer.
We go to the template here.
You can put a
strong around that.
And then you can also just put style tag
right inside of there.
And you could say ul,
this is a little bit hard to write, but
it works.
So style tag, ul, list
style, none.
Take those bullet points off
And you could go to town writing CSS for this email
and it will all work,
but I'm not going to go into that in this course.
Let's just try it once more.
Go to order ahead.
Wes.
Wes Bos
Wes Bos at Gmail.
(doot sounds)
(got-item tune)
Lots of pizza.
Go ahead and order it.
Go check our email.
There it is. Just showed up.
Beautiful. Oh, one last thing
is this comma right here
is because when you map over things
in just regular JavaScript,
it will automatically join them
with a comma so we can put a
join nothing on the end there.
And that will take the comma out for us.
$277 worth of pizza. Beautiful. Okay.
There's a couple of little things here and there.
Obviously this thing just assumes that everything is fine
as soon as it fires.
But, what we should be doing
is we should be putting a loading state on there,
waiting for the message to come back and displaying that
as well as if anything goes wrong,
we should be getting, displaying the error to the user.
So we'll clean that up in the next video.